// Sean Stasny
// CSci_423
// Programming Assignment 3
// 10-28-2014

CSCI423 Programming Assignment 3
|
|
|
Assignment Details:

An interesting way of calculating pi is to use a technique known as Monte Carlo, which involves randomization. 
This technique works as follows: Suppose you have a circle inscribed within a square, as shown in the following figure (Assume that the radius of this circle is 1.)
First, generate a series of random points as simple (x, y) coordinates.
These points must fall within the Cartesian coordinates that bound the square.
Of the total number of random points that are generated, some will occur within the circle.
Next, estimate pi by performing the following calculation:

pi = 4 x ( number of points in circle ) / ( total number of points )

Write a multithreaded C program of this algorithm that creates several threads, each of which generates random points and determines if the points fall within the circle.
Each thread will have to update the global count of all points that fall within then circle.
Protect against race conditions on updates to the shared global variable by using mutex locks.
After all these threads exit, the parent thread will calculate and output the estimated value of . 
It is worth experimenting with the number of random points generated.
As a general rule, the greater the number of points, the closer the approximation to PI.
So the total number of points generated by all the threads should be no less than 50,000,000.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Programmer-to-User Instructions:

A3.c : This is the C program for the Monte Carlo program.
a3   : This file is the compiled file for pthreads.c.

Program Description:    See assignment details at top of page...

Program Notes:          This program will generate a series of random points based on user input.
                        These points will be (x,y) coordinates that fall in the Cartesian coordinates in a square (which has a circle inscribed in it).
                        Based on how many land in the circle it genrates pi.
                        This is a brief description of the Monte Carlo method.
                
To start the program:   To run the assignment go to the terminal and find the directory that contains
                        the compiled version of the file. To run the program, type <./a3>. Then enter the desired amount of points when prompted.

Using the program:      The program immediately responds with result of its approximation of pi after it is done calculating.
                        
ENJOY THE MoneyCarload PROGRAM!!!
